# Parametric-and-Non-Parametric-Tests-in-R
This is a Statistics project that I completed in R as part of an NYU course I took in Fall 2019. In this project, I analyze the 2015 results of the World Values Survey using histograms, correlations, Mann-Whitney U tests, Kruskal-Wallis tests, Pearson’s Chi-Squared tests, ANOVAs, and multiple regressions. I focus specifically on the correlates, moderating effects, and predictors of one’s Acceptance of Young (30-year-old) Bosses by evaluating participants’ Resistance to Technology, Optimism, Ageism, Employment Status, Labor Union Membership, and Managerial Status. I found that Acceptance of Young Bosses has significant, mid-sized correlations with both Resistance to Technology (r = -0.35, p < 1e-5) and Ageism (r = -0.25, p < 1e-5). Using non-parametric tests, I found that Acceptance of Young Bosses is not significantly different across Managerial Statuses (Mann-Whitney U = 4,783,300, p > 0.05), but it is different across Labor Union Memberships (Kruskal-Wallis H(2)= 300.07, p<0.01) and Employment Statuses (Kruskal-Wallis H(6)= 19.285, p<0.01). Additionally, a significant Pearson's Chi-Squared test (X2(12, N= 8389) = 60.769, p<0.01) showed that, across Employment Statuses, people are more likely to be Labor Union Non-Members than to be Active or Inactive Members, while across Labor Union Membership types, people are most likely to be Full-Time employees followed by Housewives and all other Employment Statuses. Using parametric tests, I found that Labor Union Membership and Employment Status both have significant main effects (Labor Union Membership: F(2,7840) = 113.5, p < 0.01; Employment Status: F(6,7840) = 15.7, p < 0.01) and a significant interaction (F(12,7840) = 43.1, p < 0.01) in terms of Acceptance of Young Bosses. Post-hoc Tukey's HSD tests showed that Labor Union Non-Members are significantly more accepting than both Active and Inactive Members, while Full-Time Employees are significantly more accepting than both Retired and Unemployed people. Finally, a number of multiple regression analyses showed that Resistance to Technology and Ageism (but not Optimism) significantly predict Acceptance of Young Bosses, and these relationships are consistent for managers, non-managers, and overall.

# About the supporting data
The World Values Survey (http://www.worldvaluessurvey.org/wvs.jsp) is a non-commercial and cross-national investigation of human beliefs and values over time. The supporting data used in this project come from the 2015 results of the World Values Survey.

# Instructions to Run
To run the "World Values Analysis.R" script, you will need to download the supporting data ("WV2015A.xlsx") as well as install and load several R libraries (psych, lawstat, stats, agricolae, plyr, car, onewaytests, gplots, readxl, afex, lsmeans, lsmeans, multcomp, obk.long, data.table, corrplot, polycor, MASS, and rcompanion).
